Q: Where is the Brooklyn STEAM Center located?
A: 141 Flushing Ave in Building 77.
Q: What pathways does the STEAM Center have?
A: Culinary, Design & Engineering, Construction, Film & Media, and Cybersecurity and Full-Stack Development.
Q: Is the STEAM Center hiring?
A: You can reach out to them on the contact form on their website to see if there are any available positions.
Q: Where does postsecondary education fit in the Brooklyn STEAM Center model?
A: The STEAM Center believes that learning is a lifelong process, so they encourage our youth to start “Learning & Earning” when they’re with them and beyond, programs such as college, trade school, and apprenticeships are all viable options post-graduation.
Q: When do the Brooklyn STEAM Center programs occur?
A: The Brooklyn STEAM Center programs occur during the regular school day, in the morning for Year 2 scholars and in the afternoon for Year 1 scholars. It operates the same days as the partner high school, offering instruction five days a week for 2.5 hours each day.
Q: Wait a second, you said that students will be splitting their day, what does that mean?
A: The Brooklyn STEAM Center is located on the Brooklyn Navy Yard, which is geographically separate from all of our partner high schools. Scholars in our program spend half of their school day with us and the other half at their home high school. We provide complimentary yellow bus shuttles during the middle of the day for scholars to travel between the two locations to ensure punctuality and avoid harsh weather.
Q: Does the Brooklyn STEAM Center offer anything for alumni?
A: Yes, we want to hear from you and keep in touch, we host semi-annual alumni events, and share updates through our alumni email distribution group.
Q: Is there a price to the Brooklyn STEAM Center?
A: No, the STEAM Center is under the Department of Education and the STEAM Center providess anything the scholars need towards their education ex. any equipment, supplies or fees if any
Q: How will I know that I was accepted? Is there an orientation?
A: The scholar, identified parent/guardian, and the respective school counselor will receive an email notification that you have been accepted that will also identify the appropriate CTE program that you can either accept or decline. Accepted scholars and their families will be invited to an orientation.
Q: How/When do I decide which CTE pathway I want to study? Can I choose more than one?
A: You will rank all of the CTE Programs on the supplemental application that you will complete near the end of Grade 10. Scholars typically attain their first choice. Unfortunately, the programs offered at the STEAM Center are designed for two full years of instruction, which means you can only enroll in one program.
Q: Beyond the coursework, what else does the Brooklyn STEAM Center provide?
A: Scholars are eligible for paid internships with one of their industry partners, prior learning credits and/or priority admission with their partner colleges, access to free testing for industry-recognized credentials, and a supportive community that is built around working with our scholars for their future.
Q: Will there be tours for visitors?
A: Yes, reach out to them on their contact form via their website.
Q: How do I leave my resume with the STEAM Center even if no job opportunity is available?
A: You can use the Contact Us form and select the Potential Job option to submit a resume and indicate any specific areas of interest.
Q: Is there a fee for these explorations?
A: It depends, the STEAM Center wants to share their model as much as they can, and based on their conversation about collaboration, deep engagements may have a small fee. Rest assured these funds are used to add to their scholar compensation fund for their internship program.
Q: How does this impact a scholars high school graduation requirements?
A: The STEAM Center's CTE Programs actually enable scholars to reduce their required 6 credits of LOTE (Language Other Than English) to 2 credits. In addition, they provide 13 elective credits (five more than required) on a scholar’s transcript that will heighten their GPA and stand out to colleges. In addition, we offer a bonus credit course for our internship program. Furthermore, scholars qualify for advanced annotations on their high school diplomas for the successful completion of their program.
Q: What will my potential intern be capable of doing?
A: Our scholars are enrolled in high-quality career pathway programs, you can read about their high-level overviews here. You will also have the ability to review their resume, portfolio, and industry certifications, and interview them to decide if there is a match.
Q: Would I be considered a City of New York employee if I work for the Brooklyn STEAM Center?
A: This would depend on your offer letter, in which you may be employed as a New York City Department of Education staff member, a grant-funded position by the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, or a contracted non-employee.
Q: If it were possible to spend a whole day with you to really learn about your model, is something like that possible?
A: Inspiration visits are possible, for individuals and teams, which can span several hours or days. Please reach out to us so that we can collaborate on bringing that vision to life.
Q: When does STEAM typically place interns with business? How long are the experiences?
A: STEAM have three typical internship cycles, Fall (October-January), Spring (March-May), and Summer (July-August). Internships are usually between 80-120 hours each, you are able to work with the intern to establish a schedule that works for both of you.